## Purpose/Objective
SPA will provide paid Parental Bonding Leave (PBL) to US based employees following the birth of the employee’s child, or the placement of a child with an employee in connection with adoption. The purpose of paid PBL is to enable the employee time to care for and bond with a newborn or a newly adopted child. This Parental Bonding Leave will run concurrently with Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) leave, any mandated state family leave, and any state provided paid family leave benefits as applicable. Benefits will be coordinated so that the employee will not be paid more than 100% of the employee’s existing salary during the PBL. This updated policy will be in effect on May 15, 2023.

## Eligibility
Eligible employees must meet the following criteria: Have been employed with the company for at least 3 months (the 3 months do not need to be consecutive). Be a benefits-eligible, regular employee working at least 30 hours per week. (SPATS employees, temporary employees and interns are not eligible for this benefit).In addition, employees must meet the following criteria: Be the legal parent or guardian of a minor child, born on or after 1 April 2023. Note: Foster placements and the adoption of a stepchild are excluded from this policy.

## Amount, Time Frame and Duration of Parental Bonding Leave
Eligible employees who have been with the company for 3 months will receive two weeks (10 working days) of paid parental bonding leave per birth or adoption of a child. The fact of multiple births or adoptions (e.g., the birth of twins or adoption of siblings) does not increase the amount of paid parental bonding leave granted for that event. The PBL benefit may be used once in a rolling 12-month period. Approved PBL must be taken in a single continuous block of time. It may be taken at any time during the 12-month period immediately following a birth or adoption. PBL may not be used or extended beyond this 12-month time frame. PBL is not an accrued or vested benefit of employment. Upon termination of the individual's employment at the company, they will not be paid for any unused paid parental bonding leave for which they were eligible.

## Coordination with Other Policies
PBL taken under this policy will run concurrently with leave under the FMLA, any additional leave pursuant to applicable state or federal law, and any other SPA policies as applicable. In no case will the total amount of leave ­ whether paid or unpaid - granted to the employee under the FMLA, or any equivalent state law, exceed 12 weeks during the 12-month period unless otherwise authorized under applicable state law. Please refer to the Family and Medical Leave Policy for further guidance on the FMLA and state equivalents. After the PBL is exhausted, employees may use PTO for additional leave, if available. Upon exhaustion of accrued PTO any remaining leave will be unpaid leave. Please refer to the Leave Without Pay (LWOP) Policy for further guidance on LWOP. The company will maintain all benefits for employees during the PBL period just as if they were taking any other company paid leave. If a company holiday occurs while the employee is on PBL, that day will be charged to holiday pay.

## Requests for Paid Parental Bonding Leave
The employee must provide their supervisor and Human Resources (HR) with notice of the request for leave at least 30 days prior to the proposed date of the leave (or if the leave was not foreseeable, as soon as possible). The employee must complete the necessary HR forms and provide all documentation as required by the HR department to substantiate the request. As is the case with all company policies, SPA has the exclusive right to interpret, change or update this policy at its sole discretion.
